


1) why cloud?
	
	Small as well as large IT companies, follow the traditional methods to provide the IT infrastructure. 
	That means for any IT company, we need a Server Room that is the basic need of IT companies.

	In that server room, there should be a database server, mail server, networking, firewalls, routers, 
	modem, switches, QPS (Query Per Second means how much queries or load will be handled by the server), 
	configurable system, high net speed, and the maintenance engineers.

	To establish such IT infrastructure, we need to spend lots of money. To overcome all these problems 
	and to reduce the IT infrastructure cost, Cloud Computing comes into existence.



	Cloud computing is a term referred to storing and accessing data over the internet. 
	It doesn't store any data on the hard disk of your personal computer. In cloud computing, you can access data from a remote server.
	eg. Dropbox or Google Drive etc.

	For businesses, switching to cloud computing removes some IT costs and overhead.
	they no longer need to update and maintain their own servers, as the cloud vendor they are using will do that. 

	Cloud computing is possible because of a technology called virtualization. Virtualization allows for the creation of a simulated, 
	digital-only "virtual" computer that behaves as if it were a physical computer with its own hardware.
	The technical term for such a computer is virtual machine.


2) What are the services provided by AWS?

	Amazon Web Services offers a broad set of global cloud-based products including compute, storage, databases, analytics, 
	networking, mobile, developer tools, management tools, IoT, security and enterprise applications. 
	These services help organizations move faster, lower IT costs, and scale.



Characteristics of cloud computing:


1) Agility

2) High availability and reliability

3) High Scalability

4) Multi-Sharing

5) Device and Location Independence

6) Maintenance

7) Low Cost

8) Services in the pay-per-use mode



cloud deployment models:


Private cloud:
	
	A private cloud is a server, data center, or distributed network wholly dedicated to one organization.
Public cloud: 

	A public cloud is a service run by an external vendor that may include servers in one or multiple data centers. 
	Unlike a private cloud, public clouds are shared by multiple organizations.
Hybrid cloud: 
	
	Hybrid cloud deployments combine public and private clouds, and may even include on-premises legacy servers. 
	An organization may use their private cloud for some services and their public cloud for others, 
	or they may use the public cloud as backup for their private cloud.




Advantages of Cloud Computing:


1) Back-up and restore data-

2) Improved collaboration-

3) Excellent accessibility-

4) Low maintenance cost-

5) Mobility

6) IServices in the pay-per-use model

7) Unlimited storage capacity

8) Data security




Disadvantages of Cloud Computing:


1) Internet Connectivity

2) Vendor lock-in

3) Limited Control

4) Security



EC-2:

(Elastic Compute Cloud) -
	provides secure and resizable compute capacity in cloud.
	
	scaling.
	
	integrated with other services.

	pay for what you use.
	
	flexibility to choose OS.(windows , linux, etc.)

	EC-2 works with amazon(VPC) virtual private cloud to provide secure network resourses.

	
